README.md, before:

RINEX 
=====

[![Rust](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/actions/workflows/rust.yml)
[![crates.io](https://docs.rs/rinex/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/rinex/badge.svg)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/rinex.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/rinex)

[![minimum rustc: 1.61](https://img.shields.io/badge/minimum%20rustc-1.61-blue?logo=rust)](https://www.whatrustisit.com)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/LICENSE-APACHE)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/LICENSE-MIT) 

Rust tool suites to parse, analyze and process `RINEX` files

* [`rinex`](rinex/) is the core library 
* [`rinex-cli`](rinex-cli/) is a command line application based on the core library.  
It can be used to process RINEX files or perform operations similar to `teqc`.   
The application is auto-generated for Windows, download it from the 
[release portal](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/releases)

* [`rnx2crx`](rnx2crx/) is a RINEX compression program 
* [`crx2rnx`](crx2rnx/) is a CRINEX decompression program (Compact RINEX to RINEX)
* [`sinex`](sinex/) SNX dedicated core library

* [`ublox-rnx`](ublox-rnx/) is an application that connects to a `Ublox`
receiver and generates RINEX data quickly & easily.   
It is the combination of the [ublox](https://github.com/lkolbly/ublox)
and [rinex](rinex/) crates.

By default all timestamps are in UTC with leap seconds correctly managed.

:warning: Years encoded on two digits in files generated prior Jan 1 2000,
get falsely offset to the 21st century. This only applies to OBS(V2)
and NAV(V2) files generated prior year 2000.

## Supported `RINEX` types

| Type                       | Parser            | Writer              |  CLI                 | UBX                  |           Notes          |
|----------------------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------
| Navigation  (NAV)          | :heavy_check_mark:| Ephemeris :construction: V4 :construction: |  :heavy_check_mark:  | :construction:       | Epoch iteration |
| Observation (OBS)          | :heavy_check_mark:| :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark:  :chart_with_upwards_trend: |  :construction:  | Epoch iteration |
|  CRINEX  (Compressed OBS)  | :heavy_check_mark:| RNX2CRX1 :heavy_check_mark: RNX2CRX3 :construction:  | :heavy_check_mark:  :chart_with_upwards_trend:  |  :construction:    | Epoch iteration |
|  Meteorological data (MET) | :heavy_check_mark:| :heavy_check_mark:  | :heavy_check_mark: :chart_with_upwards_trend:  | :construction:  | Epoch iteration |  
|  Clocks (CLK)              | :heavy_check_mark:| :construction:      | :question:           |:construction: | Epoch iteration |
|  Antenna (ATX)             | :heavy_check_mark:| :construction:      | :heavy_minus_sign:   |:construction: | Sorted by `antex::Antenna` |
|  Ionosphere Maps  (IONEX)  | :heavy_check_mark:|  :construction:     | :question:           |:construction: | Epoch iteration |
|  SINEX  (SNX)              | :construction:    |  :construction:     | :heavy_minus_sign:   |:construction: | SINEX are special RINEX, they are managed by a dedicated [core library](sinex/)  |
|  Troposphere  (TRO)        | :construction:    |  :construction:     | :question:           |:construction: | Troposphere are one possible SINEX declination |
|  Bias  (BIA)               | :heavy_check_mark: |  :construction:    | :question:           |:construction: | Bias solutions are one possible SINEX declination |

:heavy_check_mark: means all revisions supported   
:construction: under development   
:chart_with_upwards_trend: means graphical RINEX Record analysis is possible, [README](rinex-cli/README.md)

## File formats

| Format   | File name restrictions  |    Support          |
|----------|-------------------------|---------------------|
| RINEX    | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark: but refer to first table |
| CRINEX   | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark:  | 
| RINEX + `gzip`   | Must end with `.gz` | Compile with `--flate2` feature, or uncompress manually first |
| CRINEX + `gzip` | Must end with `.gz` | Compile with `--flate2` feature, or uncompress manually first |
| `.Z` | :heavy_minus_sign:  | :x: |

:heavy_minus_sign: No restrictions: file names do not have to follow naming conventions.  

## Record

High level operations can be performed on RINEX records and
RINEX structure in general.
Refer to the [official Documentation](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/struct.Rinex.html).

RINEX Records vary a lot from one revision to another
and from one file type to another.
To learn how to browse the RINEX record you are interested in,
refer to its definition in the official documentation.
For example, here is the 
[Observation Record](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/observation/record/type.Record.html)
definition.

## Features

* `--serde` enables main RINEX structures serialization and deserialization 

<img align="right" width="400" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/46/SBAS_Service_Areas.png">

* `--sbas`: SBAS (stationnary augmentation systems related features).    
[selection_helper()](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/struct.Rinex.html),
select a SBAS for a given location on Earth.

* `--flate2`  
allow native parsing of .gz compressed RINEX files. Otherwise, user must uncompress manually the `.gz` extension first.

## Performances

Parsing and `--sv` enumeration requested with `rinex-cli`

File           |  RINEX 0.6 `debug`  | RINEX 0.7 `debug` | RINEX 0.7 `--release`        |
---------------|---------------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
ESBC00DNK      |  26s                | 14s               | 2s                           |
ESBC00DNK.gz   |  26s                | 14s               | 2s                           |
MOJN00DNK      |  28s                | 13s               | 2s                           |
MOJN00DNK.gz   |  28s                | 13s               | 2s                           |

Always compile rust code with the `--release` flag :+1: 

## Contributions

Contributions are welcomed, do not hesitate to open new issues
and submit Pull Requests.

If you want to take part in active developments, checkout our [TODO list](TODO.md)

Commit message:

Ephemeris - Kepler (#62)
* sbas: improve and fix crate feature
* rename to "sbas" crate feature
* sbas features are wrapped in a dedicated pkg
* switch to latest version of docs link (#54)
* Add task: automatic building (#55)
* v0.8.1: sbas package and auto built cli binary
* sbas package introduced
* auto-built cli binary upon release
* release.yml: fixing linux builder
* release: fixing autobuild, we should use a build.sh script
* release: fixing autobuild
* release script: test windows + mac
* release: windows auto build
* cli: obs enhanced with nav
* constellation: add NavIC comment
* documentation
* no need for time corrections at the moment
* 3d coords: get rid of dependency
* working on keplerian equations
* ephemeris: working on keplerian equations
* header/fmt: generate MARKER fields only if exist
* nav: fix aodc
* nav: improve orbit parsing, add tests, introduce position tests
* improve orbit description test
* kepler2ecef
* sat_pos_ecef
* epoch: use from_time_of_week
* ephemeris: use hifitime tow
* ephemeris: new calculations and methods
* introduce plotly, remove plotter-rs
* augmented sv-epoch
* sort histogram x axis
* introducing solution to plot context
* render html and add GNSS recombinations
* tiny html options
* skyplot on nav enhancement/advanced mode
* record analysis and plot context
* introducing processing::quality
* update gitignore
* remove config dir, to be handled in product/
* visible: enhance rendering speed
* navigation: fix ci/cd
* doc update

Signed-off-by: Guillaume W. Bres <guillaume.bressaix@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lars Næsbye Christensen <lars@naesbye.dk>

README.md, after:

RINEX 
=====

[![Rust](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/actions/workflows/rust.yml)
[![crates.io](https://docs.rs/rinex/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/rinex/badge.svg)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/rinex.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/rinex)

[![minimum rustc: 1.61](https://img.shields.io/badge/minimum%20rustc-1.61-blue?logo=rust)](https://www.whatrustisit.com)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/LICENSE-APACHE)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/LICENSE-MIT) 

Rust tool suites to parse, analyze and process `RINEX` files

* [`rinex`](rinex/) is the core library 
* [`rinex-cli`](rinex-cli/) is a command line application based on the core library.  
It can be used to process RINEX files or perform operations similar to `teqc`.   
The application is auto-generated for a few architectures, download it from the 
[release portal](https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/releases)

* [`rnx2crx`](rnx2crx/) is a RINEX compression program 
* [`crx2rnx`](crx2rnx/) is a CRINEX decompression program (Compact RINEX to RINEX)
* [`sinex`](sinex/) SNX dedicated core library

* [`ublox-rnx`](ublox-rnx/) is an application that connects to a `Ublox`
receiver and generates RINEX data quickly & easily.   
It is the combination of the [ublox](https://github.com/lkolbly/ublox)
and [rinex](rinex/) crates.

By default all timestamps are in UTC with leap seconds correctly managed.

## Supported `RINEX` types

| Type                       | Parser            | Writer              |  CLI                 | UBX                  |           Notes          |
|----------------------------|-------------------|---------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-------------------------
| Navigation  (NAV)          | :heavy_check_mark:| Ephemeris :construction: V4 :construction: |  :heavy_check_mark:  | :construction:       | Epoch iteration |
| Observation (OBS)          | :heavy_check_mark:| :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_check_mark:  :chart_with_upwards_trend: |  :construction:  | Epoch iteration |
|  CRINEX  (Compressed OBS)  | :heavy_check_mark:| RNX2CRX1 :heavy_check_mark: RNX2CRX3 :construction:  | :heavy_check_mark:  :chart_with_upwards_trend:  |  :construction:    | Epoch iteration |
|  Meteorological data (MET) | :heavy_check_mark:| :heavy_check_mark:  | :heavy_check_mark: :chart_with_upwards_trend:  | :construction:  | Epoch iteration |  
|  Clocks (CLK)              | :heavy_check_mark:| :construction:      | :question:           |:construction: | Epoch iteration |
|  Antenna (ATX)             | :heavy_check_mark:| :construction:      | :heavy_minus_sign:   |:construction: | Sorted by `antex::Antenna` |
|  Ionosphere Maps  (IONEX)  | :heavy_check_mark:|  :construction:     | :question:           |:construction: | Epoch iteration |
|  SINEX  (SNX)              | :construction:    |  :construction:     | :heavy_minus_sign:   |:construction: | SINEX are special RINEX, they are managed by a dedicated [core library](sinex/)  |
|  Troposphere  (TRO)        | :construction:    |  :construction:     | :question:           |:construction: | Troposphere are one possible SINEX declination |
|  Bias  (BIA)               | :heavy_check_mark: |  :construction:    | :question:           |:construction: | Bias solutions are one possible SINEX declination |

:heavy_check_mark: means all revisions supported   
:construction: under development   
:chart_with_upwards_trend: means graphical RINEX Record analysis is possible, [README](rinex-cli/README.md)

## File formats

| Format   | File name restrictions  |    Support          |
|----------|-------------------------|---------------------|
| RINEX    | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark: but refer to first table |
| CRINEX   | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark:  | 
| RINEX + `gzip`   | Must end with `.gz` | Compile with `--flate2` feature, or uncompress manually first |
| CRINEX + `gzip` | Must end with `.gz` | Compile with `--flate2` feature, or uncompress manually first |
| `.Z` | :heavy_minus_sign:  | :x: |

:heavy_minus_sign: No restrictions: file names do not have to follow naming conventions.  

## Known weaknesses :warning:

- For old files generated prior January 01 2000:
if year is encoded on two digits, they get falsely shifted into the 21st century.
For instance, "95" becomes "2095". Other than that, data is correctly parsed.

- Glonass Time Scale is not known to this day.
We cannot parse and apply system time corrections from other time scales into the glonass time scale.

## Record

High level operations can be performed on RINEX records and
RINEX structure in general.
Refer to the [official Documentation](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/struct.Rinex.html).

RINEX Records vary a lot from one revision to another
and from one file type to another.
To learn how to browse the RINEX record you are interested in,
refer to its definition in the official documentation.
For example, here is the 
[Observation Record](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/observation/record/type.Record.html)
definition.

## Features

* `--serde` enables main RINEX structures serialization and deserialization 

<img align="right" width="400" src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/46/SBAS_Service_Areas.png">

* `--sbas`: SBAS (stationnary augmentation systems related features).    
[selection_helper()](https://docs.rs/rinex/latest/rinex/struct.Rinex.html),
select a SBAS for a given location on Earth.

* `--flate2`  
allow native parsing of .gz compressed RINEX files. Otherwise, user must uncompress manually the `.gz` extension first.

## `rinex-cli` benchmark

Light operation: `--sv` enumeration

File           |  RINEX 0.6 `debug`  | RINEX 0.7 `debug` | RINEX 0.7 `--release`        |
---------------|---------------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
ESBC00DNK      |  26s                | 14s               | 2s                           |
ESBC00DNK.gz   |  26s                | 14s               | 2s                           |
MOJN00DNK      |  28s                | 13s               | 2s                           |
MOJN00DNK.gz   |  28s                | 13s               | 2s                           |

Heavy computations: observation `--dcb` + `--gf` + record analysis 

File           |  RINEX 0.8 `--release`  |
---------------|-------------------------|
ESBC00DNK      |    x                     |
ESBC00DNK.gz   |    x                    |
MOJN00DNK      |    x                    |
MOJN00DNK.gz   |    x                    |

## Contributions

Contributions are welcomed, do not hesitate to open new issues
and submit Pull Requests.

If you want to take part in active developments, checkout our [TODO list](TODO.md)
