TODO.md, before:

Roadmap
=======

- [ ] Epoch:
  - [ ] when parsing a record, `flag::HeaderInformationFollows` is not exploited,
the following content is probably interpreted as a faulty epoch to disregard
- [ ] Data production
  - [ ] Navigation 
  - [ ] Clock
  - [ ] IONEX
  - [ ] ANTEX 
- [ ] Observation
  - [ ] support possible data scaling
  for high precision RINEX
  - [ ] support scaling properly even in case of CRINEX
  - [ ] possible receiver clock offset compensation
  table 5 p7 RINEX4
- [ ] Processing: conclude MP bias analysis
- [ ] Processing: remove Wl and Nl combinations,
merge them into a unique MW combination, and we must form the exact
same combinations on both Wl/Nl sides
- [ ] compression & decompression benchmarking
- [ ] IONEX: merge operation
- [ ] Misc
  - [ ] provide python bindings, similarly to `Hifitime`.  
   Probably focus on high level and most common methods ?  
   Python bindings should be a crate "feature"
  - [ ] CI: automatic building of binaries for easy download by non-developers.  
   
  - features are not exposed to the API, we should at least
  exhibit which features exist and what they provide

  - Enhance reader/writer with hatanaka capacity to simplify file operations ?
  - Implement Lines<BufReader> iterator ourselves and avoid its memory allocation
  that takes place at every single line iteration
  
- [ ] Performances
  - [ ] convert string.find() to regex.find()
  - [ ] use Cow when possible

- [ ] CLI
  - [ ] time binning, TEQC op
  - [ ] improve vehicle color map (sv identification)
  - [ ] improve time axis by converting to a proper date axis
  - [ ] emphasize Observation EpochFlags and external events,
  with like a plot annotation or something like that
  - [ ] progress towards quality check 
  - [ ] conclude the `teqc` mini ascii plot 
  - [ ] `teqc` like verbose / analysis report ? 
  - [ ] Find an efficient method to customize header fields
- [ ]  Data production
  - [ ] provide some interface to efficiently customize the Header section
  - [ ] provide an efficient interface to manage file names to be generated 
  - [ ] Make GUI an application feature? for users not interested in such option

- [ ] Ublox
  - [ ] Have an header field attributes customization interface similar to `cli` application
  - [ ] Generate Observation Data (requires `observation::to_file` to be completed)
  - [ ] Generate Ephemeris Data (requires `navigation::to_file` to be completed)

Commit message:

Ephemeris - Kepler (#62)
* sbas: improve and fix crate feature
* rename to "sbas" crate feature
* sbas features are wrapped in a dedicated pkg
* switch to latest version of docs link (#54)
* Add task: automatic building (#55)
* v0.8.1: sbas package and auto built cli binary
* sbas package introduced
* auto-built cli binary upon release
* release.yml: fixing linux builder
* release: fixing autobuild, we should use a build.sh script
* release: fixing autobuild
* release script: test windows + mac
* release: windows auto build
* cli: obs enhanced with nav
* constellation: add NavIC comment
* documentation
* no need for time corrections at the moment
* 3d coords: get rid of dependency
* working on keplerian equations
* ephemeris: working on keplerian equations
* header/fmt: generate MARKER fields only if exist
* nav: fix aodc
* nav: improve orbit parsing, add tests, introduce position tests
* improve orbit description test
* kepler2ecef
* sat_pos_ecef
* epoch: use from_time_of_week
* ephemeris: use hifitime tow
* ephemeris: new calculations and methods
* introduce plotly, remove plotter-rs
* augmented sv-epoch
* sort histogram x axis
* introducing solution to plot context
* render html and add GNSS recombinations
* tiny html options
* skyplot on nav enhancement/advanced mode
* record analysis and plot context
* introducing processing::quality
* update gitignore
* remove config dir, to be handled in product/
* visible: enhance rendering speed
* navigation: fix ci/cd
* doc update

Signed-off-by: Guillaume W. Bres <guillaume.bressaix@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lars Næsbye Christensen <lars@naesbye.dk>

TODO.md, after:

Roadmap
=======

- [ ] Epoch:
  - [ ] when parsing a record, `flag::HeaderInformationFollows` is not exploited,
the following content is probably interpreted as a faulty epoch to disregard
- [ ] Data production
  - [ ] Navigation 
  - [ ] Clock
  - [ ] IONEX
  - [ ] ANTEX 
- [ ] Observation
  - [ ] support possible data scaling
  for high precision RINEX
  - [ ] support scaling properly even in case of CRINEX
  - [ ] possible receiver clock offset compensation
  table 5 p7 RINEX4
- [ ] Processing: conclude MP bias analysis
- [ ] Processing: remove Wl and Nl combinations,
merge them into a unique MW combination, and we must form the exact
same combinations on both Wl/Nl sides
- [ ] compression & decompression benchmarking
- [ ] IONEX: merge operation
- [ ] Misc
  - [ ] provide python bindings, similarly to `Hifitime`.  
   Probably focus on high level and most common methods ?  
   Python bindings should be a crate "feature"
  - [ ] CI: automatic building of binaries for easy download by non-developers.  
   
  - features are not exposed to the API, we should at least
  exhibit which features exist and what they provide

  - Enhance reader/writer with hatanaka capacity to simplify file operations ?
  - Implement Lines<BufReader> iterator ourselves and avoid its memory allocation
  that takes place at every single line iteration
  
- [ ] Performances
  - [ ] convert string.find() to regex.find()
  - [ ] use Cow when possible

- [ ] CLI
  - [ ] time binning, TEQC op
  - [ ] improve vehicle color map (sv identification).
  PRN close to one another (like G08 and G09) produce a color too close
  to one another. It becomes hard to tell who is who.
  We simply need a broader color space
  - [ ] improve time axis rendering by converting to a range of date
  - [ ] When Observation + Navigation context is combined,
  it would be useful to add the Elevation angles against observation plots.
  To do this, we need to enable a secondary Y axis, scale to encountered elevation angles.
  - [ ] When Observations came with receiver clock offsets,
  it would be nice to evaluate its drift like we do in `--qc` mode, 
  and plot it.
  - [ ] emphasize Observation EpochFlags and external events,
  with like a plot annotations or something like that
  - [ ] progress towards quality check `--qc`
  - [ ] Find an efficient method to customize header fields
- [ ]  Data production
  - [ ] provide some interface to efficiently customize the Header section
  - [ ] provide an efficient interface to manage file names to be generated 
  - [ ] Make GUI an application feature? for users not interested in such option

- [ ] Ublox
  - [ ] Have an header field attributes customization interface similar to `cli` application
  - [ ] Generate Observation Data (requires `observation::to_file` to be completed)
  - [ ] Generate Ephemeris Data (requires `navigation::to_file` to be completed)
