rinex-cli/doc/gnss-combination.md, before:

GNSS signal combinations
========================

This page focuses on RINEX Observation Data.

Phase (PH) observations are precise but ambiguous (N in the following equations).  
Pseudo Range (PR) observations are not precise but they are unambiguous.  
You will see this characteristic if you ever use this tool serie
to visualize PR observations against PH observations.

Both of them are subject to so called Cycle Slips [CS], 
which are discontinuities in phase measurements due to
temporary loss of lock on the receiver side.  
One source of CS is a local clock jump.

For advanced computations, it is most often a prerequisites.
That means such operations are not feasible or will not return
correct results if CSs were not cancelled prior to moving forward.

Cycle slips happen randomly, seperately accross receiver channels,
and they affect Phase/Pseudo Range measurements.   

Phase model 
===========

Phase observation at epoch $k$ against carrier signal $L_i$ is defined as

$$\Phi_{Li}(k) = \frac{1}{\lambda_{Li}} \left( \rho(k)  + T(k) + S(k) + M_{Li}(k) - \frac{\lambda^2_{Li}}{\lambda^2_{Lj}}I(k) + \frac{c}{\lambda_{Li}} \left( \tau_{r}(k) + \tau_{sv}(k) \right) \right) + e_{Li} + N_{Li} $$  

$$\lambda_{Li} \Phi_{Li}(k) = \rho(k)  + T(k) + S(k) + M_{Li}(k) - \frac{\lambda^2_{Li}}{\lambda^2_{Lj}}I(k) + c \left( \tau_{r}(k) + \tau_{sv}(k) \right) + \lambda_{Li} e_{Li} + \lambda_{Li} N_{Li} $$  

where we note $\lambda_{Li}$, the $L_i$ carrier wavelength,  
$c$ the speed of light,  
$\rho$ the distance between the receiver APC and the vehicule APC - to be referred to as the _geometric_ distance,    
$\tau_{sv}$ is the vehicule clock bias [s],   
$\tau_{r}(k)$ the receiver clock bias [s],   
$M_{Li}$ the multipath biases,   
$e_{Li}$ the carrier phase thermal noise

Phase observations have an $N_{Li}$ cycles ambiguity.
When a phase bump appears, N varies by a random number. 

The abnormal phase step $|\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k)| > \epsilon$ between successive epochs
$\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k) = \Phi_{Li}(k) - \Phi_{Li}(k-1)$ 

Pseudo Range model
==================

TODO

GF combination
==============

We define the Geometry Free [GF] combination

$$\lambda_{Li} \Delta \Phi_{Li} - \lambda_{Lj} \Delta \Phi_{Lj} = \lambda_{Li} \left( \Delta N_{Li} + \Delta e_{Li} \right) - \lambda_{Lj} \left( \Delta N_{Lj} - \Delta e_{Lj} \right) + \Delta M_{Li} + \Delta M_{Lj} - \Delta I_{Li} \frac{\lambda^2_{Li} - \lambda^2_{Lj}}{\lambda^2_{Li}} $$

now let's rework the previous equation to emphasize $\Delta N_{Li} -  \Delta N_{Lj}$
the phase ambiguities difference two different carrier signals:

[TODO]

GF combination is requested with `--gf` when analyzing Observation RINEX.  
`--gf` is processed seperately, it does not impact the remaining record analysis (raw data),
it will just create a new visualization, in the form of "gf.png".   
GF expresses fractions of $L_i - L_j$ delay.

For example, `ESBC00DNK_R_2022` sampled vehicules like G21 at a 30 second sample rate (low rate),
and G21 appears in several portions of the day.  
We form the GF combination, for both PR and Phase data from G21, from
We can form the GF combination for both PR and Phase data like from G21 data,

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
    --retain-sv G21 \
    -w "2020-06-25 00:00:00 2020-06-25 08:00:00" \
    --gf
```

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gf.png">

Three combinations were formed: 

* C1W-C2W: PR 1W/2W
* C1C-C2W: PR 1C/2W
* L1C-L2W: Ph 1C/2W 

The pseudo range residual is about 100 times more noisy and residual phase.  
Let's focus on phase with the following command:

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gf_zoom.png">

GF and atmospheric delay
========================

GF cancels out geometric terms but frequency dependant terms remain.
Therefore, GF is very good atmospheric delay estimator.

The variations seen in the previous plot are induced by atmospheric phenomena. 

GF as a CS detector
===================

When analyzing Observation RINEX, we saw that we emphasize _possible_ CSs
when plotting the phase data.

CS affect RX channels independantly, randomly and is unpredictable.  

The GF signal combination is a good option to spot cycle slip events, 
because they appear as discontinuities in the signal we get from the recombination.  

We can emphasize such a instant, if we focus the previous plot to the 1st hour of that day:

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
    --retain-sv G12 \
    --retain-obs L1C,L2W \
    -w "2020-06-25 00:00:00 2020-06-25 01:00:00" \
    --gf
```

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gfcs.png">

Discontinuities in GF slopes indicate bad reception conditions and CSs.  
You can see that this one is not reported by the receiver.  

Wide and Narrow lane combinations
=================================

When performing signal combinations, carrier wavelengths is taken into
account because phase is interpreted as number of carrier cycles.  
Wide and Narrow lane use a different carrier wavelength scaling as opposed to
the GF combination, as an easy and quick method to enhance the cycle slip 
(phase slope discontinuities) detection.

For the user only interested in atmospheric conditions observation, there is no
need to use such combinations.

Wide and Narrow lane combinations are requested with `--wl` and `--nl` respectively.  
In similar fashion, they result in a "wl.png" and "nl.png" plots and can be 
stacked to other analysis or combinations.

MW combination
==============

Melbourne-Wübbena [MW] combination is requested with `--mw` and
generates a "mw.png" plot is similar fashion.  
The MW combination combines both Narrow and Wide lane combination
for the ultimate (most sensitive) phase slope discontinuity detector.

Doppler and phase estimator
===========================

Doppler measurements evaluate the variation rate of carrier phase
and are immune to cycle slips.

If doppler data exist for a given carrier signal $D(L_i)$ we
have a phase variation estimator

$$\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k) = \frac{(k+1)-k}{2} \left(D_{Li}(k) + D_{Li}(k-1) \right) $$


## Possible cycle slips

Now all epochs in Observation RINEX come with a basic Cycle Slip indicator.  
They emphasize possible cycle slips at epoch $k$. Such epochs are emphasized by a black symbols
on the RINEX analysis.

We saw that when describing Observation Record analysis, when focusing 
on Glonass L3 from `ESBDNK`:

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp ../../test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
	--retain-sv R18
```

CS detection
============

It is important to understand the previous information is not garanteed and simply an indicator.  
False positives happen due to simplistic algorithm in the receivers.  
False negatives happen due to lack of receiver capacity.  
Therefore, cycle slip determination algorithms are used to verify previous indications.

In any case, this library is not limitated to $L_1$ and $L_2$ carriers, 
and is smart enough to form all possible combinations and scale them properly ( $\lambda_i$ ). 

We form the geometry-free [GF] combinations easily:

## Multi band / Modern context [GF]

Multi band context are the most "algorithm" friendly, 
at the expense of RINEX data complexity.

## Summary

Cycle slip determination is possible in all scenarios.  

- [D] is prefered due to its simplicity
- [GF] is the fallback method for modern contexts when Doppler shifts are missing.  
- [HOD] is the fallback method for basic contexts when Dopplers shifts are missing,
at the expense of a parametrization complexity

Commit message:

cli/doc: missing command line
Signed-off-by: Guillaume W. Bres <guillaume.bressaix@gmail.com>

rinex-cli/doc/gnss-combination.md, after:

GNSS signal combinations
========================

This page focuses on RINEX Observation Data.

Phase (PH) observations are precise but ambiguous (N in the following equations).  
Pseudo Range (PR) observations are not precise but they are unambiguous.  
You will see this characteristic if you ever use this tool serie
to visualize PR observations against PH observations.

Both of them are subject to so called Cycle Slips [CS], 
which are discontinuities in phase measurements due to
temporary loss of lock on the receiver side.  
One source of CS is a local clock jump.

For advanced computations, it is most often a prerequisites.
That means such operations are not feasible or will not return
correct results if CSs were not cancelled prior to moving forward.

Cycle slips happen randomly, seperately accross receiver channels,
and they affect Phase/Pseudo Range measurements.   

Phase model 
===========

Phase observation at epoch $k$ against carrier signal $L_i$ is defined as

$$\Phi_{Li}(k) = \frac{1}{\lambda_{Li}} \left( \rho(k)  + T(k) + S(k) + M_{Li}(k) - \frac{\lambda^2_{Li}}{\lambda^2_{Lj}}I(k) + \frac{c}{\lambda_{Li}} \left( \tau_{r}(k) + \tau_{sv}(k) \right) \right) + e_{Li} + N_{Li} $$  

$$\lambda_{Li} \Phi_{Li}(k) = \rho(k)  + T(k) + S(k) + M_{Li}(k) - \frac{\lambda^2_{Li}}{\lambda^2_{Lj}}I(k) + c \left( \tau_{r}(k) + \tau_{sv}(k) \right) + \lambda_{Li} e_{Li} + \lambda_{Li} N_{Li} $$  

where we note $\lambda_{Li}$, the $L_i$ carrier wavelength,  
$c$ the speed of light,  
$\rho$ the distance between the receiver APC and the vehicule APC - to be referred to as the _geometric_ distance,    
$\tau_{sv}$ is the vehicule clock bias [s],   
$\tau_{r}(k)$ the receiver clock bias [s],   
$M_{Li}$ the multipath biases,   
$e_{Li}$ the carrier phase thermal noise

Phase observations have an $N_{Li}$ cycles ambiguity.
When a phase bump appears, N varies by a random number. 

The abnormal phase step $|\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k)| > \epsilon$ between successive epochs
$\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k) = \Phi_{Li}(k) - \Phi_{Li}(k-1)$ 

Pseudo Range model
==================

TODO

GF combination
==============

We define the Geometry Free [GF] combination

$$\lambda_{Li} \Delta \Phi_{Li} - \lambda_{Lj} \Delta \Phi_{Lj} = \lambda_{Li} \left( \Delta N_{Li} + \Delta e_{Li} \right) - \lambda_{Lj} \left( \Delta N_{Lj} - \Delta e_{Lj} \right) + \Delta M_{Li} + \Delta M_{Lj} - \Delta I_{Li} \frac{\lambda^2_{Li} - \lambda^2_{Lj}}{\lambda^2_{Li}} $$

now let's rework the previous equation to emphasize $\Delta N_{Li} -  \Delta N_{Lj}$
the phase ambiguities difference two different carrier signals:

[TODO]

GF combination is requested with `--gf` when analyzing Observation RINEX.  
`--gf` is processed seperately, it does not impact the remaining record analysis (raw data),
it will just create a new visualization, in the form of "gf.png".   
GF expresses fractions of $L_i - L_j$ delay.

For example, `ESBC00DNK_R_2022` sampled several vehicles for 24h 
at a low sample rate (30s).  
We form the GF combination, for both PR and Phase data for G21 and G08:

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
    --retain-sv G08,G21 \
    -w "2020-06-25 00:00:00 2020-06-25 08:00:00" \
    --gf
```

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gf.png">

Several combinations were formed, like C1W-C2W meaning PR 1W against PR 2W,
both L1 and L2 signals were sampled for both vehicles, but L5 is also sampled for G08.

The residuals for Pseudo Range measurements is about 100 times more noisy.   
It is also impossible to notice any cycle slips using Pseudo Range residuals.  
Let's focus on Phase data only:

```bash
./target/release/rinex-cli \
    --fp test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
    --retain-sv G21,G08 \
    --retain-obs L1C,L2L,L2W,L5Q \
    -w "2020-06-25 00:00:00 2020-06-25 08:00:00" \
    --gf
```

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gf_zoom.png">

GF and atmospheric delay
========================

GF cancels out geometric terms but frequency dependant terms remain.
Therefore, GF is very good atmospheric delay estimator.

The variations seen in the previous plot are induced by atmospheric phenomena. 

GF as a CS detector
===================

When analyzing Observation RINEX, we saw that we emphasize _possible_ CSs
when plotting the phase data.

CS affect RX channels independantly, randomly and is unpredictable.  

The GF signal combination is a good option to spot cycle slip events, 
because they appear as discontinuities in the signal we get from the recombination.  

We can emphasize such a instant, if we focus the previous plot to the 1st hour of that day:

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
    --retain-sv G12 \
    --retain-obs L1C,L2W \
    -w "2020-06-25 00:00:00 2020-06-25 01:00:00" \
    --gf
```

<img align="center" width="650" src="https://github.com/gwbres/rinex/blob/main/doc/plots/esbc00dnk_gfcs.png">

Discontinuities in GF slopes indicate bad reception conditions and CSs.  
You can see that this one is not reported by the receiver.  

Wide and Narrow lane combinations
=================================

When performing signal combinations, carrier wavelengths is taken into
account because phase is interpreted as number of carrier cycles.  
Wide and Narrow lane use a different carrier wavelength scaling as opposed to
the GF combination, as an easy and quick method to enhance the cycle slip 
(phase slope discontinuities) detection.

For the user only interested in atmospheric conditions observation, there is no
need to use such combinations.

Wide and Narrow lane combinations are requested with `--wl` and `--nl` respectively.  
In similar fashion, they result in a "wl.png" and "nl.png" plots and can be 
stacked to other analysis or combinations.

MW combination
==============

Melbourne-Wübbena [MW] combination is requested with `--mw` and
generates a "mw.png" plot is similar fashion.  
The MW combination combines both Narrow and Wide lane combination
for the ultimate (most sensitive) phase slope discontinuity detector.

Doppler and phase estimator
===========================

Doppler measurements evaluate the variation rate of carrier phase
and are immune to cycle slips.

If doppler data exist for a given carrier signal $D(L_i)$ we
have a phase variation estimator

$$\Delta \Phi_{Li}(k) = \frac{(k+1)-k}{2} \left(D_{Li}(k) + D_{Li}(k-1) \right) $$


## Possible cycle slips

Now all epochs in Observation RINEX come with a basic Cycle Slip indicator.  
They emphasize possible cycle slips at epoch $k$. Such epochs are emphasized by a black symbols
on the RINEX analysis.

We saw that when describing Observation Record analysis, when focusing 
on Glonass L3 from `ESBDNK`:

```bash
rinex-cli \
    --fp ../../test_resources/CRNX/V3/ESBC00DNK_R_20201770000_01D_30S_MO.crx.gz \
	--retain-sv R18
```

CS detection
============

It is important to understand the previous information is not garanteed and simply an indicator.  
False positives happen due to simplistic algorithm in the receivers.  
False negatives happen due to lack of receiver capacity.  
Therefore, cycle slip determination algorithms are used to verify previous indications.

In any case, this library is not limitated to $L_1$ and $L_2$ carriers, 
and is smart enough to form all possible combinations and scale them properly ( $\lambda_i$ ). 

We form the geometry-free [GF] combinations easily:

## Multi band / Modern context [GF]

Multi band context are the most "algorithm" friendly, 
at the expense of RINEX data complexity.

## Summary

Cycle slip determination is possible in all scenarios.  

- [D] is prefered due to its simplicity
- [GF] is the fallback method for modern contexts when Doppler shifts are missing.  
- [HOD] is the fallback method for basic contexts when Dopplers shifts are missing,
at the expense of a parametrization complexity
